                                   508.namd_r
                     SPEC CPU(R)2017 Benchmark Description

  Benchmark Name

   508.namd_r

  Benchmark Author

   Jim Phillips <jim [at] ks.uiuc.edu>
   Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group
   University of Illinois
   Urbana-Champaign

  Benchmark Program General Category

   Scientific, Structural Biology, Classical Molecular Dynamics Simulation

  Benchmark Description

   The 508.namd_r benchmark is derived from the data layout and inner loop of
   NAMD, a parallel program for the simulation of large biomolecular systems.

   Although NAMD scales to over 200,000 cores for very large systems, serial
   performance is equally important to the over 50,000 users who have
   downloaded the program over the past decade. Almost all of the runtime is
   spent calculating inter-atomic interactions in a small set of functions.
   This set was separated from the bulk of the code to form a compact
   benchmark for CPU2017.

  Input Description

   The file apoa1.input is a 92224 atom simulation of apolipoprotein A-I and
   is used as a standard NAMD benchmark. This particular file format is
   created by NAMD 2.9 using the "dumpbench" command, and eliminates the need
   for file readers and other setup code from the benchmark. Test, train and
   ref read from the same input file, but run the code for different number
   of iterations. For ref the code is run for 49 iterations. For training 7
   iterations should be used to properly weight pairlist creation and usage.

  Output Description

   CPU2017 uses the "--output namd.out" command-line option to produce an
   output file, namd.out, containing various checksums on the force
   calculations. These should be consistent across platforms, within roundoff
   error, and it is used for validation.

  Known portability issues

   The benchmark is written in conservative C++, is quite portable, and the
   inner loop code (module ComputeNonbondedStd.C) contains no aliasing. The
   erfc() function is required for startup. On Windows, -DSPEC_NEED_ERFC is
   defined during compilation to build a version of erfc() for little-endian,
   32-bit and 64-bit platforms. This is only needed for startup, and should
   not affect overall performance.

  Sources and Licensing

   NAMD was contributed directly to SPEC(R) by the University of Illinois,
   and eventually became 508.namd_r.

  Reference

     * [1]http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/namd/
     * James C. Phillips, Rosemary Braun, Wei Wang, James Gumbart, Emad
       Tajkhorshid, Elizabeth Villa, Christophe Chipot, Robert D. Skeel,
       Laxmikant Kale, and Klaus Schulten. Scalable molecular dynamics with
       NAMD. Journal of Computational Chemistry, 26:1781-1802, 2005.

   Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation
   (SPEC(R))

References

   Visible links
   1. http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/namd/
